Supplier $i$ can serve buyer $j$ at price $p_{ij}$. This may include an observable friction.

To transact with supplier $i$, we need to personally interact with one of its managers $m$, with whom the rapport is $\kappa_{mj}$. This rapport drawn for each pair of firms and managers iid from a known distribution, but is not ex ante known to anyone.

Rapport is not part of accounting costs, but it affects supplier choice. A buyer is going to choose supplier $i$ if and only if
$$
p_{ij}/\kappa_{mj} \le p_{kj}/\kappa_{m'k}
$$
for all potential suppliers $k$ and their managers $m'$. Rapport is drawn from a Frechet distribution,
$$
F_m(\kappa) = e^{- T_m\kappa^{-\theta}},
$$
with $T_m$ a function of manager observables, like age, gender and nationality. (We can also make it $mj$ specific, maybe because German firms like to work with German managers.)

The probability of buying from $i$ is given by equation (8) in Eaton-Kortum 2002,
$$
\Pr(ij) = \pi_{ij} =
\frac {T_m p_{ij}^{-\theta}}
	{\sum_k T_{m'} p_{kj}^{-\theta}}.
$$
The rapport-adjusted price of firm $k$ has the form (see eq 5 of EK)
$$
G_{kj}(p) = 1-e^{-T_{m'}p_{kj}^{-\theta}p^\theta}.
$$
The distribution of the lowest RAP is
$$
G_{j}(p) = 1-e^{-\Phi_j p^\theta},
$$
with
$$
\Phi_j = \sum_k T_{m'}p_{kj}^{-\theta}.
$$
This is also the distribution of the RAP conditional on purchasing from $i$. 
$$
\Pr(p_{ij}/\kappa_{mj} \le p|ij) = 1-e^{-\Phi_j p^\theta} 
$$
Hence we can express the conditional rapport of manager $m$ as
$$
\Pr(\kappa_{mj} \le K|ij) =
\Pr(p_{ij}/\kappa_{mj} \ge p_{ij}/K|ij)
= e^{-\Phi_j p_{ij}^\theta K^{-\theta}}. 
$$
This is Frechet with parameter 
$$
\Phi_j p_{ij}^\theta = T_m + \sum_{k\neq i} T_{m'}(p_{ij}/p_{kj})^\theta \ge T_m.
$$ Once we know that this manager has been selected in competition with other managers, her rapport is estimated to be higher.

Now suppose that one of the suppliers ($i$, say) has a manager with whom I have worked before. I therefore have a conditional distribution of her rapport with me. All other suppliers have unknown managers, with only $T_{m'}$ as their Frechet parameters.

$$
\pi_{ij} = \frac {T_m p_{ij}^{-\theta} + \sum_{k\in\text{previous competitors}} T_{m'}p_{kj}^{-\theta} }
	{T_m p_{ij}^{-\theta} + \sum_{k\in\text{previous competitors}} T_{m'}p_{kj}^{-\theta} + \sum_{k\in\text{current competitors}} T_{m'}p_{kj}^{-\theta} }
$$
So having this manager is kind of a dummy in a logit regression. 

## General lessons
The costs of a supplier depend on a common component (unit cost, quality), a persistent match-specific component, and a person-buyer specific component. The innovation is that individual people have an effect on supplier choice (or the production process more generally). 

We make the additional assumption that the match-specific component can be observed (or estimated with fixed effects), and the only unobserved component is person-buyer specific. This is a strong assumption, but follows from the idea that personal rapport is hard to forecast from firm observables. We hope to relax the assumption in the full model. Part of the person-buyer specific component can be related to expertise, which may be easier to forecast.

## Extensions
### Multiple managers
There are $n$ managers at firm $i$, each with their own rapport shock. I only purchase from the one with whom I have the highest rapport. The distribution of rapport for the winning manager is Frechet with 
$$
\Pr(\kappa\ge K|i) = e^{
-\sum_m T_{m} K^{-\theta}
},
$$
parameter $\sum_m T_{m}$. In case the managers are symmetric, the Frechet parameter is $nT_m$. 

I am more likely to buy from a firm with many managers. 

If one of them moves to a new firm, there is a $1/n$ chance that this is the person with whom I was working. What is the distribution of rapport with someone I did not select in this competition?
$$
\Pr(\kappa\le K|\text{not winner}) = 
\Pr(\kappa\le K|\kappa < \kappa_{\max}) =
F_{\max}(K)
+
\int_{k=K}^{\infty}\Pr(\kappa\le K|\kappa < k)dF_{\max}(k)
$$
$$
\Pr(\kappa\le K|\kappa < k > K) =
\frac {F(K)}
	{F(k)} =
e^{-T(K^{-\theta} - k^{-\theta})}
$$
$$
F_{\max}(k) = e^{-nT k^{-\theta}}
$$
$$
f_{\max}(k) = e^{-nTk^{-\theta}}nT\theta k^{-\theta-1}
$$

$$
\Pr(\kappa\le K|\text{not winner}) = 
e^{-nTK^{-\theta}}
+
e^{-TK^{-\theta}}
\frac {n}{n-1}
\int_{k=K}^{\infty}e^{-(n-1)Tk^{-\theta}} 
(n-1)T\theta k^{-\theta-1}dk
$$
$$
= e^{-nTK^{-\theta}}
+
e^{-TK^{-\theta}}
\frac {n}{n-1}
[1-e^{-(n-1)TK^{-\theta}}] =
\frac {n-1}{n-1}
e^{-nTK^{-\theta}}
+
\frac {n}{n-1}
[e^{-TK^{-\theta}}-e^{-nTK^{-\theta}}] 
$$
$$
=
\frac {n}{n-1}
e^{-TK^{-\theta}}
-\frac {1}{n-1}
e^{-nTK^{-\theta}}.
$$

Rapport distribution of one of the managers, not knowing whether this was the winner,
$$
\Pr(\kappa\le K) = \frac 1ne^{-nT K^{-\theta}}
+ 
e^{-TK^{-\theta}}
-\frac {1}{n}
e^{-nTK^{-\theta}} = e^{-TK^{-\theta}},
$$
which is the same as the rapport of a random manager.

Key variable seems to be how many managers does the firm have and how many do I know?

What if I also know that the best was selected? The non-selected managers have the same distribution, but the best has a better rapport. So
$$
\Pr(\kappa\le K|1\text{ of }n\text{ selected}) = 
\frac 1ne^{-\Phi K^{-\theta}}
+ 
e^{-TK^{-\theta}}
-\frac {1}{n}
e^{-nTK^{-\theta}},
$$
with $\Phi>nT$ capturing the strength of competition from which the best manager was selected. This is not Frechet but a mixture of Frechets.

> Maybe relevant?
> 	Small, Kenneth A. 1987. “A Discrete Choice Model for Ordered Alternatives.” _Econometrica: Journal of the Econometric Society_ 55 (2): 409–24. 

# 2023-04-14
If a manager is selected in competition, the conditional distribution of her rapport is Frechet with
$$
\Lambda_m = \Phi_j p_{ij}^\theta = T_m + \sum_{k\neq i} T_{m'}(p_{ij}/p_{kj})^\theta \ge T_m.
$$
To estimate $\Lambda_m$ from observables, note that 
$$
\frac {T_m p_{ij}^{-\theta}}
	{\Phi_j}
= \pi_{ij}
$$
so that
$$
\Lambda_m = T_m/\pi_{ij} > T_m.
$$
Here $\pi_{ij}$ is the expected probability of chosing the firm of the manager before knowing her rapport. The smaller this probability, the larger the amount of selection on rapport if we chose her in the end.

Given another set of competitors all with new iid rapport draws,
$$
\pi_{ij1} = \frac {\Lambda_{m_i} p_{ij1}^{-\theta}}
	{\Lambda_{m_i} p_{ij1}^{-\theta} + \sum_{k\neq i}T_{m_k} p_{kj1}^{-\theta}  }
$$
We know that
$$
\Lambda_{m_i} = T_{m_i}\pi_{ij0}^{-1}.
$$
Let $T_{m_i}p_{ij1}^{-\theta} = e^{\beta X_{ij1}}$. Then
$$
\pi_{ij1} = \frac {\pi_{ij0}^{-1} e^{\beta X_{ij1}}}
	{\pi_{ij0}^{-1} e^{\beta X_{ij1}} + \sum_{k\neq i}e^{\beta X_{kj1}}  }
= \frac {e^{\beta X_{ij1}-\ln\pi_{ij0}}}
	{e^{\beta X_{ij1}-\ln\pi_{ij0}} + \sum_{k\neq i}e^{\beta X_{kj1}}  }.
$$
We can estimate this in a logit with a dummy for a known manager.  A testable implication is if we estimate $\pi_{ij0}$ from past observables, then a manager from an "unlikely" supplier should be more valuable. This is because if the supplier is not good on observables, it must have been the manager why I was buying from them. (Even in a more general model, this selection mechanism seems to ring true.)

## Common competitors
If some of the competitors were there in the past with the same manager, we have to control for knowing that they have not won in the past. Let there be four type of managers:

1. past winner
2. common managers among past losers
3. past losers who no longer compete (manager left from pool of potential suppliers)
4. new competitors (new manager from outside of potential suppliers)

What is the distribution of rapport with a past loser from group 2?
$$
\Pr(\kappa_{nj} \le K|n \text{ lost}) = ?
$$
Use the law of total probability,
$$
\Pr(\kappa_{nj} \le K) = F_n(K) = 
\Pr(\kappa_{nj} \le K|n \text{ lost})(1-\pi_{nj}) 
+ \Pr(\kappa_{nj} \le K|n \text{ won})\pi_{nj},
$$
so that
$$
\Pr(\kappa_{nj} \le K|n \text{ lost})  =
\frac {F_n(K)-\Pr(\kappa_{nj} \le K|n \text{ won})\pi_{nj}}
	{1-\pi_{nj}}
$$
$$
= \frac{e^{-T_n K^{-\theta}} - \pi_{nj} e^{-T_n K^{-\theta}/\pi_{nj}}}
{1-\pi_{nj}}
$$
> NB: The draws are not independent. Past losers have already lost to the past winner. Unless the observables change, they will keep losing.

The PDF of a loser's rapport with $j$ is
$$
f(\kappa) = \frac {e^{-T_n \kappa^{-\theta}} - e^{-T_n \kappa^{-\theta}/\pi_{nj}} }
	{1-\pi_{nj}}
	T_n\theta \kappa^{-\theta-1}
$$

## Loser competing with a random manager
Pick the loser $1$ iff
$$
\kappa_1 \ge \kappa_2 p_1/p_2.
$$
$$
\pi_{1} = \Pr(\kappa_1 \ge \kappa_2 p_1/p_2) = 
\int_{k_1=0}^\infty
f_1(k_1)\int_{k_2=0}^{k_1 p_2/p_1} f_2(k_2)dk_2 dk_1 = 
\int_{k_1=0}^\infty
f_1(k_1)F_2(k_1 p_2/p_1)dk_1
$$
Integrate by parts?
$$
[F_1(k)F_2(k)]' = f_1(k)F_2(k) + F_1(k)f_2(k) 
$$
Anyway.
$$f_1(k_1) = \frac {e^{-T_1 k_1^{-\theta}} - e^{-T_1 k_1^{-\theta}/\pi_{1j}} }
	{1-\pi_{1j}}
	T_1\theta k_1^{-\theta-1}
$$
Let $\rho=p_2/p_1$. 
$$
f_1(k_1)F_2(\rho k_1) = 
\frac {e^{-T_1 k_1^{-\theta}} - e^{-T_1 k_1^{-\theta}/\pi_{1j}} }
	{1-\pi_{1j}}
	T_1\theta k_1^{-\theta-1}
e^{-T_2\rho^{-\theta}k_1^{-\theta}}
$$
$$
= \frac {e^{-(T_1+T_2\rho^{-\theta}) k_1^{-\theta}} - e^{-(T_1/\pi_{1j}+T_2\rho^{-\theta}) k_1^{-\theta}} }
	{1-\pi_{1j}}
	T_1\theta k_1^{-\theta-1}

$$
Integrating this
$$
\frac {T_1}
	{(1-\pi_{1j})(T_1+T_2\rho^{-\theta})}
\int_{k=0}^\infty
	e^{-(T_1+T_2\rho^{-\theta}) k^{-\theta}}
	(T_1+T_2\rho^{-\theta})\theta k^{-\theta-1}dk
- 
\frac {T_1}
	{(1-\pi_{1j})(T_1/\pi_{1j}+T_2\rho^{-\theta})}
$$
and we can (we already have) use the fact that the term in the integral is 1.
$$
\pi_1 = 
\frac {1}
	{1-\pi_{1j}}
\left[\frac {T_1}
	{T_1+T_2\rho^{-\theta}}
- 
\frac {\pi_{1j} T_1/\pi_{1j}}
	{T_1/\pi_{1j}+T_2\rho^{-\theta}}
\right]
$$


## Switching suppliers
Suppose I have two suppliers. Past winner is firm 1. Its manager moves to firm 2, the past loser. Firm 1 gets a new random manager. Because there are no other firms, there are no common losers.

I already know manager 1, so her rapport at firm 2 will be $\Lambda = T/\pi_{10}$. The rapport of the new manager 1 is, as an unknown person, $T$. Suppose prices did not change.

The probability that I switch to firm 2 is
$$
\pi_{21} = \frac {T/\pi_{10}p_2^{-\theta}}
	{T/\pi_{10}p_2^{-\theta} + Tp_1^{-\theta}}.
$$
We also know that
$$
\pi_{10} = \frac {Tp_1^{-\theta}}
	{Tp_2^{-\theta} + Tp_1^{-\theta}}
$$
so that
$$
\pi_{10}^{-1} = 1+p_1^{\theta}p_2^{-\theta} 
$$
and
$$
\pi_{21} = \frac {(1+p_1^{\theta}p_2^{-\theta})p_2^{-\theta}}
	{(1+p_1^{\theta}p_2^{-\theta})p_2^{-\theta} + p_1^{-\theta}}.
$$
This is not very pretty. Instead, express
$$
(p_2/p_1)^{-\theta} = 1/\pi_{10} - 1
$$
and
$$
\pi_{21} = \frac {1/\pi_{10}(p_2/p_1)^{-\theta}}
	{1/\pi_{10}(p_2/p_1)^{-\theta} + 1}
	=
\frac {1/\pi_{10} - 1}
	{1/\pi_{10} - 1 + \pi_{10}}	
	=
\frac {1 - \pi_{10}}
	{1 - \pi_{10} + \pi_{10}^2}	
$$




[[ERC-2023-AdG]]