
Supplier $i$ can serve buyer $j$ at price $\tau_{ij}p_i$. Here $\tau$ is an observable friction.

To transact with supplier $i$, we need to personally interact with one of its managers $m$, which is subject to a rapport cost $\kappa_{mj}$. This rapport cost is draw for each pair of firms and managers iid from a known distribution, but is not ex ante known to anyone.

Rapport costs are not part of accounting costs, but they affect supplier choice. A buyer is going to choose supplier $i$ if and only if
$$
\kappa_{mj}\tau_{ij}p_i \le \kappa_{m'k}\tau_{kj}p_k
$$
for all potential suppliers $k$ and their managers $m'$. Take logs,
$$
\ln\kappa_{mj} + \ln \tau_{ij} + \ln p_i \le \ln \kappa_{m'k} + \ln\tau_{kj} + \ln p_k.
$$
To use a logit model, we need $\ln\kappa$ to be distributed Gumbel,
$$
\Pr(\ln\kappa \le x) = e^{-e^{-x/\sigma}}.
$$
Then 
$$
\Pr(ij) = \pi_{ij} =
\frac {(\tau_{ij}p_i)^{-1/\sigma}}
	{\sum_k (\tau_{kj}p_k)^{-1/\sigma}}.
$$
The log total cost of the purchase is
$$
\ln c_j = \min_k \ln \kappa_{m'k} + \ln\tau_{kj} + \ln p_k. 
$$
It also has a Gumbel distribution,
$$
\Pr(\ln c_j \le c) = 
\prod_k
\Pr(\ln \kappa_{m'k} + \ln\tau_{kj} + \ln p_k \le c) = 
\prod_k
\Pr(\ln \kappa_{m'k} \le c- \ln\tau_{kj} - \ln p_k)$$
$$
= \prod_k 
e^{-e^{(\ln\tau_{kj}+\ln p_k-c)/\sigma}}
= \prod_k
e^{-(\tau_{kj}p_k)^{1/\sigma} e^{-c/\sigma}}
= e^{-\sum_k(\tau_{kj}p_k)^{1/\sigma} e^{-c/\sigma}},
$$
with the location parameter $[\sum_k(\tau_{kj}p_k)^{-1/\sigma}]^{-\sigma}$. 

Given that a firm purchases from supplier $i$, what is our knowledge about the rapport with its manager $m$? We know from Eaton-Kortum 2002 footnote 17, that the cost paid to the actual supplier has the same distribution as the unconditional cost.
$$
\Pr(\ln \kappa_{mi} + \ln\tau_{ij} + \ln p_i \le c) = 
e^{-\sum_k(\tau_{kj}p_k)^{1/\sigma} e^{-c/\sigma}}.
$$
So the rapport cost's distribution is
$$
\Pr(\ln \kappa_{mi} \le c- \ln\tau_{ij} - \ln p_i) = 
e^{-\sum_k(\tau_{kj}p_k)^{1/\sigma} e^{-c/\sigma}}.
$$
Denoting $c' = c- \ln\tau_{ij} - \ln p_i$, 
$$
\Pr(\ln \kappa_{mi} \le c') = 
e^{-\sum_{k\neq i}(\tau_{kj}p_k)^{1/\sigma} e^{-c'/\sigma}}.
$$
That is, the rapport cost is Gumbel with location parameter that depends on the competitors of $i$, not on $i$ itself. If a supplier was selected in a tough competition, the rapport with its manager must be great.

Now suppose that one of the suppliers ($i$, say) has a manager with whom I have worked before. I therefore have a conditional distribution of her rapport with me. All other suppliers have unknown managers, with "standard" Gumbel distribution.

What is the probability that I will buy from supplier $i$? 
$$
\Pr(\ln \kappa_{m'k} + \ln\tau_{kj} + \ln p_k \le x)
=
\Pr(\ln \kappa_{m'k} \le x-\ln\tau_{kj} - \ln p_k)
= e^{-(\tau_{kj}p_k)^{1/\sigma}e^{-x/\sigma}}
$$
Let
$$
\phi_{mj} = \sum_{k\neq i} (\tau_{kj} p_k)^{1/\sigma}
$$
denote the overall competitiveness of the market in which the manager was "tested."
$$
\pi_{ij} = \frac {\phi_{mj} + (\tau_{ij}p_i)^{-1/\sigma}}
	{\phi_{mj}+\sum_{l}(\tau_{lj} \pi_l)^{-1/\sigma}}
$$
So having this manager is kind of a dummy in a logit regression. 

> NB: There are imprecise steps in these derivations. Do the derivation with Frechet, exactly as in Eaton and Kortum.

## General lessons
The costs of a supplier depend on a common component (unit cost, quality), a persistent match-specific component, and a person-buyer specific component. The innovation is that individual people have an effect on supplier choice (or the production process more generally). 

We make the additional assumption that the match-specific component can be observed (or estimated with fixed effects), and the only unobserved component is person-buyer specific. This is a strong assumption, but follows from the idea that personal rapport is hard to forecast from firm observables. We hope to relax the assumption in the full model. Part of the person-buyer specific component can be related to expertise, which may be easier to forecast.

## Preliminary findings
A buyer-seller relationshipek 2%-ában van mútlbeli kapcsolat a managerrel (bought from this manager before). A véletlen mintában ez 0.0%. A "bought from this manager before" dummy 4pp-tal növeli a vásárlás valószínűségét, 0.01%-os baseline ellenében. Vagyis 400-szorosra.

A hatás egy része abból jön, hogy nagy vevők több mindenkitől vesznek most is meg régen is, de vevő fixed effekttel is működik. 

A modellből valami olyan fog kijönni, hogy egy supplier choice logitban a fenti dummy pozitív kell legyen mindenfélére kontrollálva. Még a mindenfélére kontrollálás hátravan, de ígéretes.

LPM-et futtatok arra hogy veszel e egy adott cégtől annak függvényében hogy olyan menedzser van nála, akitől korábban már vettél. 2-3pp-tal nagyobb ilyenkor a vásárlás valószínűsége.   

Ez jöhet részben homofíliából. Hasonlók között áramlanak a dolgozók, és hasonlóktól vásárolnak a cégek. De. 

Akkor is erős a hatás ha csak olyan cégekre szűkítem, aki 2019-ben venni fognak egymástól vagy akik között volt munkásáramlás. Ezek ugye eleve hasonlóak. 

Ha egyszerre rakok be dummyt a különböző FEOR csoportok mozgására, akkor azt látjuk, hogy a menedzser és egyéb felsőfokú feor hatása 2pp, egyéb dolgozóké csak 0.6-0.8pp.

## Extensions
### Multiple managers

[[ERC-2023-AdG]]